---
layout: post
title:  "GSoC Week 5: Regeneration 100"
date:   2019-06-16 20:40:05 +0530
url: /gsoc-5/
---

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/github-buttons.css" />

<script src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.12.0/jquery.min.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/github-buttons.js"></script>

## Completing Regeneration

After the basic scheduler for regeneration was in place, the next _hurlde_ was handling regeneration of entities with `regenRate` less than 1. The regeneration rate are stored in floats, while health increments happen in longs. So conversion usually meant chopping to integer values. But lots of entities depend on less than one regeneration, especially blocks. The soil block, which is _building block_ for terasology gameplay, has 0.75 regeneration rate. So, something was to be done to handle this case in regeneration.

After some possibilites discussed, it was concluded that a float `remainder` should be present in `RegenComponent` which tracks the remainder of the regeneration happening. 

<div class="github-button" url="https://github.com/Terasology/Health/pull/10"></div>

## The Concurrence Problem

A serious issue popped up on testing the pull request having basic Regen Logic. The game crashed after several seconds of client and server attacking each other, throwing a `ConcurrentModificationException`. Although initially percieved as a multiplayer issue, it intruded in single player as well. The issue was present whenever more than one regeneration was happening. 

All entities' references which are being regenerated is stored in a sorted map in `RegenAuthoriySystem`. I initially suspected the addition of regeneration logic to be the culprit, modifying the map while it is used in regen. I went on that trail for a day, all in vain. 

Turns out, modifying a map while iterating through it is itself considered concurrent modification. Multi-threading is not always the cause of that exception. So i added a quick fix for this issue in Pull #10 itself. 

## Removing Regen Made Easy

The present implementation makes removing particular type of regeneration very easy. All a system has to send is `DeactivateRegenEvent(String id)` which removes regeneration "id". 

So, the Regeneration system is now capable of 
- Handling base regeneration of entities
- Adding addition regeneration effects to entities, with time of the effect
- Removing only certain kind of regeneration effect
- Disabling all regeneration of an entity

This covers almost all of the points that came up on the discussion on _Ideal_ regeneration system. 

Also, this is time when I got a little sick, thereby draining my two days' time. 

## Removing Regen Recklessly?

I encountered one more issue in the present system. The regeneration system _removes_ the `RegenComponent` when an entity reached full health. But what if it has an active effect of regeneration? The removal of the component implies that all the _past_ regen info is lost immediately, which is not desired.

<div class="github-button" url="https://github.com/Terasology/Health/issue/11"></div>

I implemented a check in the removal process, checking for the state of the component, and removing it only if it has only _base_ regen. 

<div class="github-button" url="https://github.com/Terasology/Health/pull/13"></div>

## Purging old stuff

My _initial_ plan for regeneration was to have events like `RegenerateEvent`, `BeforeRegenEvent` and `OnRegenEvent` to mark the regeneration process. But adding a scheduler made these events obsolete. So, I removed them. I also updated the test for regeneration to test the scheduler way of regen. 

<div class="github-button" url="https://github.com/Terasology/Health/pull/12"></div>

## What Next?

With the regeneration now complete, the next task is to create the Restoration Logic of healing. This _should_ take up the whole week. Let's see...